docs/upgrades/kfd/README.md, before:

# Kubernetes Fury Distribution universal upgrade guide

This guide describes the steps to follow to upgrade the Kubernetes Fury Distribution from one versions to the next.

If you are running a custom set of modules, or different versions than the ones included with each release of KFD, please refer to each module's release notes.

> ⛔️ **IMPORTANT**
> we strongly recommend reading the whole guide before starting the upgrade process to identify possible blockers.

## Upgrade procedure

Check the available automatic upgrade paths [here](https://github.com/sighupio/furyctl/tree/main/configs/upgrades). These are the tested and suggested upgrade paths to be used.

### Run the upgrade

Change `.spec.distributionVersion` on your `furyctl.yaml` file with the new `vX.X.X` version.

Validate the schema using:

```bash
furyctl validate config
```

Apply the new configuration on the cluster with:

```bash
furyctl apply --upgrade
```

#### Additional useful flags when upgrading

##### OnPremises

In the OnPremises provider, during the upgrade, you can use the `--skip-nodes-upgrade` flag to skip the actual upgrade of the worker nodes and only do the upgrade of the masters.

In a second moment, you can run for each worker, the command

```bash
furyctl apply --upgrade-node <nodename>
```

where `nodename` is the name in the furyctl.yaml file

##### Upgrade fails during a phase

You can run the command

```bash
furyctl apply --upgrade
```

and furyctl will start from the last successful phase. If you want to start from a different phase, you can use the flag `--start-from` like this:

```bash
furyctl apply --upgrade --start-from pre-distribution
```

you can find all the available parameters with the `furyctl apply --upgrade --help` command.

## Manual upgrade procedure

To upgrade your cluster to the next version manually, follow the release notes for each module and installer.

Commit message:

docs: update docs with the new get upgrade-paths command

docs/upgrades/kfd/README.md, after:

# Kubernetes Fury Distribution universal upgrade guide

This guide describes the steps to follow to upgrade the Kubernetes Fury Distribution from one versions to the next.

If you are running a custom set of modules, or different versions than the ones included with each release of KFD, please refer to each module's release notes.

> ⛔️ **IMPORTANT**
> we strongly recommend reading the whole guide before starting the upgrade process to identify possible blockers.

## Upgrade procedure

### 1. Identify the upgrade path

Each version of furyctl supports a set of upgrade paths for a specific version of Kubernetes Fury Distribution.  These are the tested and suggested upgrade paths to be used.

We recommend using the latest version of furcytl available. furyctl is backwards compatible with older versions and may include new upgrades paths in a release, even for older versions of the distribution.

To get the available upgrades paths for your cluster run the following command:

```bash
furyctl get upgrade-paths
```

This will read the cluster configuration file and give you the available target versions you can upgrade the current version to.

> [!TIP]
> You can get the paths for other versions too, using the `--from` flag:
>
> ```bash
> furyctl get upgrade-paths --from 1.29.3 --kind OnPremises
> ```
>
> See `furyctl get upgrade-paths --help` for more options.

### 2. Run the upgrade

Change `.spec.distributionVersion` on your `furyctl.yaml` file with the new `vX.X.X` version.

Validate the schema using:

```bash
furyctl validate config
```

Apply the new configuration on the cluster with:

```bash
furyctl apply --upgrade
```

#### Additional useful flags when upgrading

##### OnPremises

In the OnPremises provider, during the upgrade, you can use the `--skip-nodes-upgrade` flag to skip the actual upgrade of the worker nodes and only do the upgrade of the masters.

In a second moment, you can run for each worker, the command

```bash
furyctl apply --upgrade-node <nodename>
```

where `nodename` is the name in the furyctl.yaml file

##### Upgrade fails during a phase

You can run the command

```bash
furyctl apply --upgrade
```

and furyctl will start from the last successful phase. If you want to start from a different phase, you can use the flag `--start-from` like this:

```bash
furyctl apply --upgrade --start-from pre-distribution
```

you can find all the available parameters with the `furyctl apply --upgrade --help` command.

## Manual upgrade procedure

To upgrade your cluster to the next version manually, follow the release notes for each module and installer.
